# CUSTOMER-ORDERS-BY-COUNTRIES-Identifying order distribution across regions like the USA, UK, Australia, and Canada.

## PROJECT OVERVIEW 
This project analyzes customer orders by countries to understand sales trends, identify top markets, and generate insights for strategic business decisions.

## OBJECTIVE 
The objective of this project is to analyze customer orders by country to identify top markets, reveal trends in sales, and provide actionable recommendations for growth.

## DATA UNDERSTANDING 

Source of the data : From company (CSV)

Key columns/fields:  OrderID, CustomerID, Country, OrderDate, Amount

Missing values, duplicates, and data quality issues.

The dataset contains customer orders with fields including OrderID, CustomerID, Country, OrderDate, and Amount. There are 10,000 rows covering 20 countries."

## METHODOLOGY 

Data cleaning using Excel and Python 

Analysis techniques - grouping by country, calculating total sales, identifying trends.

Visualization plan - Created bar charts and pie chart for top sales and revenue generated by each country.

## YTHON, EXCEL AND POWER BI IMPLEMENTATION 

Libraries: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, plotly, Excel pivot table, Power BI.

Steps:

1. Load the dataset:
import pandas as pd
data = pd.read_csv("orders.csv")

2. Inspect and clean data:
data.info()
data.dropna(inplace=True)

3. Aggregate sales by country:
country_sales = data.groupby("Country")["Amount"].sum().sort_values(ascending=False)
print(country_sales)

4. Visualize trends:
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
country_sales.plot(kind="bar")
plt.title("Total Sales by Country")
plt.show()

5. Power BI data visualization for confirmation

6. Excel pivot table - for plotting graphs 

## DASHBOARD 
https://github.com/Joshua-atsorglo/CUSTOMER-ORDERS-BY-COUNTRIES-/blob/main/pr1_31F5408EB8DE194D1E51.jpg

## INSIGHT 
1. Top-performing countries.

2. Low-performing countries and possible reasons.

3. Trends over time.

The USA and UK are the top-performing countries, contributing to 60% of total sales. Countries like Canada and Australia show low engagement but have potential for growth.

## RECOMMENDATIONS 

1. Expand marketing in high-potential countries, optimize stock in top countries.
2. Launch promotions in low-performing regions.

### CONCLUSION 
To maximize sales, focus on expanding marketing in emerging markets and optimize operations in high-sales countries. The project provides clear insights into customer behavior by country, aiding strategic decision-making."




